Document the --performance option with a nice tutorial (#248)
openfisca/openfisca-doc: source/simulate/profile-simulation.md

```
PYTEST_ADDOPTS="$PYTEST_ADDOPTS --durations=3" openfisca test --country-package openfisca_france tests/formulas/irpp_prets_participatifs.yaml

...

9.03s call     tests/formulas/irpp_prets_participatifs.yaml::
7.75s call     tests/formulas/irpp_prets_participatifs.yaml::
3.02s call     tests/formulas/irpp_prets_participatifs.yaml::
```

Terrific! We now know that the first test in `tests/formulas/irpp_prets_participatifs.yaml` is fairly slow.

## Generate the flame graph

To generate the flame graph, you just have to pass the [`--performance`](https://openfisca.org/doc/openfisca-python-api/openfisca-run-test.html) option to `openfisca test`.

We'll also use the [`--name_filter`](https://openfisca.org/doc/openfisca-python-api/openfisca-run-test.html) option to just profile the first test.

```
openfisca test --performance --name_filter ir_prets_participatifs_2016 --country-package openfisca_france tests/formulas
git status | grep html

...

performance_graph.html
```

## Open the flame graph

Now you can open the file with your favorite browser.

For example, in OS X:

```
open performance_graph.html
```

You'll be greeted by a very nice looking flame graph like this one:

> [![Performance graph](https://cdn.rawgit.com/openfisca/openfisca-doc/master/source/static/img/performance_graph.png)](https://github.com/openfisca/openfisca-doc/blob/master/source/static/img/performance_graph.png)

Author: Yes, it will be once the changeset is integrated, as the asset is included in this pull request.

Now we know that the `impots_directs` formula takes quite a lot of time.

But, why?

## Find the bottleneck

In order to why your simulation is slow, we need to find where is the bottleneck.

We'll use a line profiler to figure it out:

```
pip install line_profiler
```

Then we'll `line_profiler` to profile our formula:

```python
class impots_directs(Variable):
    value_type = float
    entity = Menage
    label = "Impôts directs"
    reference = "http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imp%C3%B4t_direct"
    definition_period = YEAR

    @profile
    def formula(menage, period, parameters):
```

Finally we run our test with the line profiler enabled:

```
kernprof -v -l openfisca test --name_filter ir_prets_participatifs_2016 --country-package openfisca_france tests/formulas
``` 

Now we know where lies our most expensive line:

```
Line #   Hits    Time      Per Hit      % Time         Line Contents
====================================================================

635         1    3488880.0 3488880.0    100.0          isf_ifi_i = menage.members.foyer_fiscal('isf_ifi', period)
```

> Another formula...

Author: No, the idea is to introduce the next section, I'll improve wording here.

```

The `cotisations_salariales` branch:

```
Line #   Hits    Time        Per Hit    % Time         Line Contents
====================================================================

202        48    1054648.0   21971.8     32.0          cotisations_salariales = individu('cotisations_salariales', period)
180        48     784194.0   16337.4     74.7          cotisations_salariales_contributives = individu('cotisations_salariales_contributives', period)
117        48     265682.0    5535.0     34.1          agff_salarie = individu('agff_salarie', period)
224        48     264976.0    5520.3     99.9          variable_name = "agff_salarie"
67        480     583017.0    1214.6     66.7          ) + (
113        40      50839.0    1271.0     96.1          bareme_name = bareme_name,
99       1000     360294.0     360.3     44.8          categorie_salarie = categorie_salarie,
40       1192     449850.0     377.4     98.5          return - sum(iter_cotisations())
37       2532     359388.0     141.9     77.2          round_base_decimals = round_base_decimals,
```

Great! We've found two performance bottlenecks in OpenFisca-Core:

- `TaxBenefitSystem.get_parameters_at_instant`

> - `MarginalRateTaxScale.calc`

Author: Undocumented steps, I've just added them!

What now?

## Follow to the core

We'll continue our profiling in core, following `TaxBenefitSystem.get_parameters_at_instant`.

For that, we need to install OpenFisca Core in editable mode:

```
pip install -e /path/to/openfisca-core
```

And as before we add the `@profile` decorator:

```python
@profile
def get_parameters_at_instant(self, instant):
```

> 

Author: Added the missing steps.

Let's see:

```
Line #   Hits    Time       Per Hit    % Time             Line Contents
=======================================================================

355        50    2457587.0  49151.7     99.1              parameters_at_instant = self.parameters.get_at_instant(str(instant))
16      44100     554056.0     12.6     59.0              instant = str(periods.instant(instant))

> 39      44100     277239.0      6.3     44.6              for fragment in instant.split('-', 2)[:3]

Author: Added the missing steps.

```

This is the whole snippet:

```python
instant = periods.Instant(
    int(fragment)
    for fragment in instant.split('-', 2)[:3]
    )

> ```

Author: Added the missing steps.

        integers = [parse_fragment(fragment) for fragment in fragments]
        instant = periods.Instant(integers)

    elif isinstance(instant, datetime.date):
        instant = periods.Instant((instant.year, instant.month, instant.day))

    elif isinstance(instant, int):
        instant = (instant,)

    elif isinstance(instant, (list, tuple)):
        assert 1 <= len(instant) <= 3
        instant = tuple(instant)

    elif isinstance(instant, periods.Period):
        instant = instant.start

    elif isinstance(instant, periods.Instant):
        return instant

    else:
        return instant

    return globals()[f"instant_{len(instant)}"](instant)

@functools.lru_cache(maxsize = 1000)
def parse_fragment(fragment: str) -> int:
    return int(fragment)

@functools.lru_cache(maxsize = 1000)
def instant_1(instant: Instant) -> Instant:
    return periods.Instant((instant[0], 1, 1))

@functools.lru_cache(maxsize = 1000)
def instant_2(instant: Instant) -> Instant:
    return periods.Instant((instant[0], instant[1], 1))

@functools.lru_cache(maxsize = 1000)
def instant_3(instant: Instant) -> Instant:
    return periods.Instant(instant)

> ```

Author: Nice catch! Corrected the example.

2.46s call     tests/formulas/irpp_prets_participatifs.yaml::
```

Looks promising!

## Beware of context!

So we tried reducing the number of hits, what about reducing the impact per hit?

Looking back to `get_at_instant`, let's follow the next function call:

```python
Line #  Hits     Time      Per Hit    % Time         Line Contents
===================================================================

16     44100      76860.0      1.7     15.4          instant = str(periods.instant(instant))
17     44100     421350.0      9.6     84.6          return self._get_at_instant(instant)
```

Let's look at that code closer:

```python
def _get_at_instant(self, instant):
    for value_at_instant in self.values_list:
        if value_at_instant.instant_str <= instant:
            return value_at_instant.value
    return None
```

A linear search! I know what you're thinking, what if we do a binary search instead?

Let's try that out (naive implementation):

```python
def _get_at_instant(self, instant):
    index = self.values_dict.bisect_right(instant)

    if index > len(self.values_list):
        return None

    return self.values_list[::-1][index - 1].value

> ```

Reviewer: I get the following error: 
```
AttributeError: 'Parameter' object has no attribute 'values_dict'
```

Author: Arf I think I lost the full example code, I tried to reproduce it as best as I could.

And performance wise?

```
Line #  Hits     Time      Per Hit    % Time         Line Contents
===================================================================

16     44100      82468.0      1.9     10.6          instant = str(periods.instant(instant))
17     44100     696812.0     15.8     89.4          return self._get_at_instant(instant)
177   196150     596129.0      3.0     65.8          index = self.values_dict.bisect_right(instant)
```

It's actually worse... but why?

> One hypothesis: even if, compared to a linear search with complexity _O(n)_, a binary search should more efficient in that it has a complexity of _O(log(n))_, it will actually be more efficient for large numbers of _n_, which is not usually the case here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One hypothesis is, even if, compared to a linear search with complexity _O(n)_, a binary search should be more efficient in that it has a complexity of _O(log(n))_, it will actually be more efficient for large numbers of _n_, which is not usually the case here.
```

> In fact, creating a lookup table for parameters would be theoretically more efficient. That would require refactoring as the current `values_list` object is not hashable. Indeed, even using a more appropiate data structure could lead to better performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In fact, creating a lookup table for parameters would be theoretically more efficient. That would require refactoring, as the current `values_list` object is not hashable. Indeed, even using a more appropiate data structure could lead to better performance.
```

## Wrap up

> Let's finally run our base & proposed scenarios several times so to have something more statistically sound.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, let's run our base & proposed scenarios several times so as to have something more statistically sound.
```

IPython's `%timeit` comes handy:

```
pip install ipython
ipython
%timeit -n 10 -r 3 !openfisca test --country-package openfisca_france tests/formulas/irpp_prets_participatifs.yaml

...

# Before
17.2 s ± 261 ms per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 3 runs, 10 loops each)

# After
17.1 s ± 49.2 ms per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 3 runs, 10 loops each)
```

> Statistically irrelevant :/ but hey! we've learned quite a lot during the journey :)

Reviewer: I agree ^^

> ```suggestion
> Statistically irrelevant :/ but hey! Life is about the journey, not the destination :)
> ```

> Now what? Reduce recursion? But how? Split-Apply-Combine?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But now what? Reduce recursion? But how? Split-Apply-Combine?
```

    17     54550     429057.0      7.9     38.6          return self._get_at_instant(instant)
```

This is the whole snippet for the expensive `periods.instant` function:

```python
def instant(instant):
    # ... 

    if isinstance(instant, str):
        # ...

        instant = periods.Instant(
            int(fragment)
            for fragment in instant.split('-', 2)[:3]
            )
```

We'll refactor it as follows:

```python
fragments = instant.split('-', 2)[:3]
fragments = [int(fragment) for fragment in fragments]
instant = periods.Instant(fragment for fragment in fragments)
```

So as to see where the bottleneck is:

```
Line #  Hits     Time      Per Hit    % Time         Line Contents
==================================================================

40     44100     223427.0      5.1     31.4          fragments = [int(fragment) for fragment in fragments]
```

Perfect!

## Isolate the bottleneck

Now we're going to isolate it:

```python
fragments = instant.split('-', 2)[:3]
fragments = [parse_fragment(fragment) for fragment in fragments]
instant = periods.Instant(fragments)

# ...

> def parse_fragment(fragment: str) -> int:

Author: ```suggestion
@profile
def parse_fragment(fragment: str) -> int:
```

```

From `salaire_imposable`, we can follow two different branches:

1. The `indemnite_residence` branch:

```
Line #   Hits    Time        Per Hit    % Time         Line Contents
====================================================================

199        48    1951692.0   40660.2     59.3          indemnite_residence = individu('indemnite_residence', period)
737        48    1615270.0   33651.5     73.0          _P = parameters(period)
```

Let's find out where `parameters` is defined by modifying the code as follows:

```diff
class indemnite_residence(Variable):
    value_type = float
    entity = Individu
    label = "Indemnité de résidence des fonctionnaires"
    definition_period = MONTH
    set_input = set_input_divide_by_period

    def formula(individu, period, parameters):
+       breakpoint()
```

Then running `openfisca test` with [The Python Debugger](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html):

```
$ openfisca test --pdb tests/formulas/irpp_prets_participatifs.yaml

...

(Pdb) parameters.__qualname__
'TaxBenefitSystem.get_parameters_at_instant'
```

> 2. The `cotisations_salariales` branch:

Reviewer: For some reason the `2` here shows as `1` in html. Not only here, but I noticed in [`From Law to code/Parameters/How to write a new parameter`](https://openfisca.org/doc/coding-the-legislation/legislation_parameters.html)as well in the published doc 🤔

Author: Nice catch, my last commit fixes the ordered lists :)

        instant = periods.Instant(integers)

    elif isinstance(instant, datetime.date):
        instant = periods.Instant((instant.year, instant.month, instant.day))

    elif isinstance(instant, int):
        instant = (instant,)

    elif isinstance(instant, (list, tuple)):
        assert 1 <= len(instant) <= 3
        instant = tuple(instant)

    elif isinstance(instant, periods.Period):
        instant = instant.start

    elif isinstance(instant, periods.Instant):
        return instant

    else:
        return instant

    return globals()[f"instant_{len(instant)}"](instant)

@functools.lru_cache(maxsize = 1000)
def parse_fragment(fragment: str) -> int:
    return int(fragment)

@functools.lru_cache(maxsize = 1000)
def instant_1(instant: periods.Instant) -> periods.Instant:
    return periods.Instant((instant[0], 1, 1))

@functools.lru_cache(maxsize = 1000)
def instant_2(instant: periods.Instant) -> periods.Instant:
    return periods.Instant((instant[0], instant[1], 1))

@functools.lru_cache(maxsize = 1000)
def instant_3(instant: periods.Instant) -> periods.Instant:
    return periods.Instant(instant)
```

> Please note that we're importing `annotations` from `__future__` so as to postpone the evaluation of type annotations ([PEP484](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0484/) and [PEP563](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0563/)) so as to avoid [cyclic imports](https://discuss.python.org/t/how-to-add-type-hints-for/7459).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that we're importing `annotations` from `__future__` so as to postpone the evaluation of type annotations ([PEP484](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0484/) and [PEP563](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0563/)), in order to avoid [cyclic 

> imports](https://discuss.python.org/t/how-to-add-type-hints-for/7459).

```
